Ever since I can remember, I've always had a problem with procrastination or moving slowly.

As a child when I'd wake up in the morning for school, it would take me a long time to change from my bedclothes into my school clothes and I'd often have to be nagged by my mother to hurry up or I'd be late.

This became more apparent to me in school where I'd resort to cramming for tests the night before or doing homework the class before it was due. 

In certain things, things that I truly loved, I found the opposite to be true: as a child I loved writing and drawing and often I'd spend entire classes doodling, creating comics or games on paper or writing short stories.

I found I could often write or draw for hours at a time, the only thing breaking me out of my reverie would be a teacher calling my attention or scolding me. I have vivid memories having these "extra notebooks" -- in grade school in particular we'd have notebooks for each class. I'd always have 1-2 extra notebooks to draw or write on. I remember them being confiscated along with my pencils / pens quite frequently.

This "super into it or not at all" attitude followed me to college. While my concentration got better because of the large leap in the interestingness of the subject matters and the quality of teaching I still found my mind drifting in classes that didn't captivate me. Around this time I got into cinema, and I'd imagine movie scripts in my head. 

I'd cut class quite a bit, except for those classes I really enjoyed - programming and animation. I liked programming so much sometimes I'd elect to cut my classes for the day and spend it in my apartment coding up a game. 

This led to a decline in my grades - I started my freshman year almost making the Dean's List (I think I was off by 0.01 or something) but my interest in studying dropped off when I couldn't make the connection with the practicality of many of the classes.

Instead, I started taking on paid projects - I took on animation projects for the Dean of the School of Management and hacked on a farm system for my uncle. The classes I did well on usually had a programming or animation component, and often I'd be the leader for groups wherever programming was involved.

I wonder though if this was the right attitude. Whenever people ask me if I have any regrets in college, I usually tell them "no". I have always believed that it's not really productive to have regrets. You have to give your past self some credit: you did the best you could with the knowledge and character you had at the time. The only sin for me would not be trying your best. Besides, I had heaps of fun meeting new people from all walks of life (it was my first time living quite far away from my parents - 1 hour by plane) some of which have become lifelong friends and it was always a joy to follow my passion.

But now that I am older and more mature, I'd like to reflect on the right way to develop myself on the path to _eudaimonia_.

## Akrasia

> Akrasia: the state of mind in which someone acts against their better judgment through weakness of will

In Book 7 of Nicomachean Ethics, Aristotle discusses the concepts of temperance and intemperance, and continence and incontinence.

As I understand them, temperance and intemperance relate to appetites for a certain thing - it can be food, alcohol, sex

Let's focus on the example of overeating doughnuts.

* A temperant person does not feel a strong desire to overeat. There is no strong appetite to gorge themselves on doughnuts.
* An intemperant person feels a strong desire for doughnuts. Even if they have already eaten a box of dougnuts they will keep glancing at the remaining doughnuts on the table and it would take them a lot of willpower to keep their hand from reaching for "just one last" doughnut (even if they've been saying "this is my last one" for the last half hour).

Continence and incontinence are distinct from temperance and intemperance because it talks about
1. Having the knowledge of the better choice
2. Actually executing the right action based on their judgment

Therefore,
* An continent person, despite feeling the desire and urge for more doughnuts, is able to keep his desires in check and keep his hand from reaching for more
* An incontinent person, despite knowing they shouldn't eat more because they are on a diet, gives in and scrafs down yet another doughnut

Being continent is really about having a firm knowledge of what is virtuous and having the will to act on that knowledge.

Reflecting on my story above: even if I have no regrets I think it is useful to use it as a point of discussion to convince myself I should pursue being continent.

A continent person would know the right thing to do is not to cut class, to listen in class and get good grades. This is the main purpose of being in school isn't it? 

I think there are arguments pro and contra so let's dive in:

Counterarguments to being continent in that scenario
* If I had focused on school, I might not have made as many friends or good life experiences as I did. I might also not have become competent at programming.

Arguments pro continence 
* If I had focused on school, I might have been able to apply for postgraduate studies in a school I'd have really liked

Discussions
* Sloth
* Hyperfocus

Doing things at the right time, in the right amounts. Stopping myself from going too far.
The concept of Golden Mean moving depending on the person.  